I am Ivan Kotliarevsky.
Born in 1769 in Poltava, Ukraine.
I am a Ukrainian writer, poet, and playwright,
social activist, regarded as the pioneer of
modern Ukrainian literature.
I was a veteran of the Russo-Turkish War.
My father was Ogonczyk Coat of Arms.
I worked as a tutor for the gentry at rural
estates, where I became familiar with Ukrainian
folk life and the peasant vernacular.
I served in the Imperial Russian Army and
participated in the Russo-Turkish War as a
staff captain during which the Russian troops
laid the siege to the city of Izmail.
In 1812, during the French invasion of Imperial
Russia, I organized the 5th Ukrainian Cossack
Regiment in the town of Horoshyn and received
the rank of major.
One of my contributions to my Ukrainian nation
was in the field of literature.
I helped stage theatrical productions at the
Poltava governor-general's residence and was
the artistic director of the Poltava Free
Theater.
My Eneida poem is considered to be the first
literary work published wholly in the modern
Ukrainian language.
Although Ukrainian was an everyday language
for millions of people in Ukraine, it was
officially discouraged from literary use in
the area controlled by Imperial Russia.
Eneida is a parody of Virgil's Aeneid, where
I transformed the Trojan heroes into Zaporozhian
Cossacks.
Critics believe that it was written in the
light of the destruction of the Zaporizhian
Host by the order of Catherine the Great.
My two plays, also living classics, Natalka
from Poltava and Muscovite-Sorcerer, became
the impetus for the creation of the development
of Ukrainian national theater.
I died in 1838, living my life defending my
people right to live with words and hands.
Where the love for the Motherland inspires
heroism, there an enemy force will not stand,
there a chest is stronger than cannons.
I hope my people are standing strong to this
day, looking with pride at our past, with
passion towards our present, and with hope
towards our future.